So now that we understand the intuition behind our regression algorithm we can run and evaluate our
regression.
We will write the python code to actually crunch the numbers.
So I hope that at this point you still have your Jupiter notebook open and your session is still connected.
While the big advantage of using the online version of Jupiter notebook is that you can get started
right away and you don't have to install anything but if you're inactive for a while and you haven't
been using it then it's possible that you can get disconnected and lose your work.
So in that case you might see something like this.
And it's important to remember that you can always save your work by saying download as and then notebook
and you can always restore your work by going back to try Jupiter with Python and then simply uploading
the Jupiter notebook that you downloaded previously and your data file.
So if you upload those then you can continue where you left off in the next module.
I will walk you through how to install Jupiter locally on your machine.
You might only encounter this situation if you are trying it out using binder through the web portal.
Now without further ado let's give our notebook the capability to run a regression this capability just
like the others it's going to come from a module in this case this module is going to be called psychic
learn psychic learn is one of the most popular machine learning modules in Python and we can get hold
of it in our interpreter notebook simply by typing import SDK learn but we're only looking for something
very specific out of socket learn so instead of importing all of psychic learn what we're gonna do instead
is going to see from as Kilburn dot linear underscore model and I hit tab on my keyboard here to bring
up this option we're gonna import linear regression.
Once again I typed the first few characters there and then I hit enter to insert the rest of the code
and this avoids any sort of typos like you know having a lowercase are here for example after we've
added this line of code let's hit shift enter on a keyboard or click run to run the cell.
Alternatively if you've opened this notebook from fresh you might have to go to cell and then run all
let me add a few more cells here at the bottom and then we can add the code to run our linear regression
the task of running a linear regression for calculating the slope of our line and the intercepts is
once more going to be done by an object so we're gonna create this object and to give it a name.
So what I'm going to call it regression and I'm going to set it equal to linear regression with some
parentheses at the end.
This bit of code here will create our object and we're gonna be storing it inside here so we can always
refer to our linear regression by the name regression.
So now that we've created our object we can actually tell it to do something we can tell it to run our
regression and the way we're gonna do that is simply by using the regression and then putting a dot
after it and then writing fit inside the parentheses we have to tell it two things namely the features
are X and our labels are lower case Y when we hit shift enter on the cell it will crunch the numbers
and just like that we've actually run our regression.
Now I know we don't see any output here but trust me the.
The numbers have been crunched and to prove this we can pull up the slope coefficient and the intercept
that were calculated by a regression we can get hold of the slope through our regression object.
So regression dot QF and here I'm hitting tab on my keyboard to bring up that menu them and then hit
enter to insert the code.
Now you can of course type this out and you'll get the same result but just remember that there's an
underscore here at the end.
That's part of the name.
So let me run the cell and let's take a look at what the slope coefficient is.
So here we see that it's three point 1 1.
Now one of the great things about Jupiter notebook is that we can add some markdown cells so I can add
a cell here and I can change it to markdown to add a little bit of explanation to what my code is doing.
That way if a compact to this notebook in the future and I'm wondering what regression not code does.
I can look at the markdown cell above and I can leave myself a little note for example I can see slope
coefficient and shift enter and then I'll get this text inserted here.
Now if I wanted to leave myself little notes inside the actual cells where I've got my pipe on code.
Then I have to use something called a comment and I can add a comment here with a hashtag or a pound
symbol and I can add this here and right for example theta underscore one and you can see that the text
here is green and that means that this text is considered to be a comment and will be ignored.
It's not going to be treated as code and I can actually execute the cell and I'll run just fine but
if I watch delete this little symbol here this pound symbol and try to run it then I would get an error
and it would tell me invalid syntax.
So that little pound symbol is very very important.
That's what's going to differentiate code from comments.
OK so we've cut our slope coefficient.
What about a heart intercept our intercept.
We can pull up similarly through this regression object.
So regression dot and then put intercept with the underscore at the end.
Once again gonna hit tab on my keyboard there I'm not such a fast timer and it inserted the code for
me.
So let's take a look at what the value of this interceptors.
Here we can see that it's about negative seven point two million.
So now we know the regression slope and the intercept.
And while it's not bad to have these two numbers to hand we can actually do better than this.
Wouldn't it be nice if we could just plot a line on our chart.
Because we've painstakingly visualized our data.
Why not just plot the regression line on this chart as well.
So let's do just that.
What I'm going to do is I'm gonna take this entire cell and I'm going to copy it and then I'm going
to come down here and I'm going to paste it.
And the reason I'm doing this is simply to have a reference.
So here I'm going to have the chart without the line and here I'm going to modify my code here so I
get the chart with the line and you can move these cells around as well.
So if I use this little up arrow here then I can move it above this cell here wonderful.
So how do we plot a line on here.
Well we can use map plot lib once again.
So Matt.
Plot lib has a functionality called plot.
So PDT dot plot will allow us to plot a line on this chart but we have to supply some information we
have to tell.
Plot lib what exactly to plot.
And for that it will actually need two things.
We need the Xs and the Y's so I'll need some information for where it should plot things on this axis.
And where should plot things on this axis now.
Production budgets are our feature.
So for this axis we can use our Xs right.
So I'm going to put an X here and then a comma and I have to supply the y value and what should this
be.
We don't want to use the actual value that we have for the gross revenue.
Instead what we would like to do is we'd want to use the predicted value from our regression and we
can get hold of those values by calculating a predicted value for each of the x values.
To do that we'll need the regression object from socket learned that we used earlier.
All we need to do is type regression.
Don't predict parentheses x then it will calculate a prediction for each of the budget values in our
data and plot it on the graph.
So let me hit shift enter on the cell and let's take a look at what we've got scrolling down.
I can see we've got a regression line right here.
Fantastic.
But be a bit nicer if it stood out a little more right.
Let's give it a color.
Let's give it a width.
Let's make it a bit thicker and we can do that by going into this line of code here.
And just before this ending parenthesis we can add a comma and then we're gonna add a color here.
So gonna see color is equal to red in single quotes and that will make our line red.
As you can guess and to make it thicker we can specify the line width.
So in line with all in lowercase in one word is equal to let's try for if I had shift enter to refresh
myself then I can see that my regression line is a lot thicker and it's changed in color.
What we see now is we see the relationship between our production budgets and our movie revenue as predicted
by our linear regression model.
And that means we can move on to the final part of our data science workflow namely evaluating and analyzing
our algorithms performance.
How do we do that we do a good job or a bad job.
What can the movie's budgets tell us about the movie revenue.
This is the point where we have to think very very hard about our model.
The question that we should ask ourselves at this point is are these parameters actually plausible.
Let's take a look at that slope coefficient.
It's three point one 1.
It means that there is a positive relationship between budget and revenue and not only that it means
that for each dollar that we spend on producing the movie we should get around three point one dollars
in revenue in return.
And I actually think this seems to make sense.
Bigger budget films tend to do better.
So that's good news for us right because we've put our life savings on the line for this zombie movie
right.
Now what about the other parameter the intercept.
This one is at minus seven point two million.
How do we interpret that.
What this intercept is literally telling us is that a movie with a budget of zero would actually lose
over seven million dollars.
So that's a bit problematic.
Right.
That seems quite unrealistic because if you and I went out to make a movie with a thousand dollars it's
pretty unlikely that seven million would just disappear from our bank accounts.
So this is a lot less realistic.
And this begs the question What should we conclude about our model.
Well it means that we should actually take it with a grain of salt.
We just have to accept that our model is a dramatic simplification of the real world.
And as such we should be a little bit careful on how much we believe the predictions of our model especially
at the extreme ends.
Just look at the distance here look at the gap between this data point and our line the predictions
of our model seem to fit the data a lot worse at the extreme.
So how we use this model to make a prediction anyhow see we need to predict the revenue for a film with
a 50 million dollar budget.
We know what our intercepts are.
We know what the theta zero and the theta one is equal to.
And if we want to know what the revenue would be for a film with a budget of 50 million all we would
have to do is to substitute the values all of our parameters that we estimated into this equation.
So our X is going to be 50 million and if we do the math then we get our prediction at least according
to our model.
Right.
On a chart it would look something like this.
We can draw a line up from 50 million and then predict how much.
What is that we're actually going to make off the movie.
And it's gonna be a little bit less than three times the amount that we invested so about 148 million
dollars which is not bad right.
But how do we know if it's accurate.
How can we measure how good our model is.
So even though it is very very simplistic we can still ask the question of how much of the real world
data it actually explains.
And for that we need some kind of measure.
We need some kind of statistic and the measure that we're going to look at is called R squared.
Also called the goodness of fit to look at our r squared plus simply take our regression and we write
regression don't score.
And within the parentheses we supply our capital X and our lowercase y our feature and our labels and
we had shift enter and here what we see is that the r squared is approximately zero point five five
this number here is the amount of variation in film revenue that is explained by the film's budget.
And I got to say that 55 percent is actually pretty good because think about it this way are very simplistic
model with a single feature namely the production budget can explain around 55 percent of the variation
that we see in worldwide movie earnings.
I'd say that's pretty good news for a first try but of course we should be a little bit cautious.
Reading into this model too much because we've still got a lot to learn.
For example how would our model do if we added more features like how long it took to make or if it's
a sequel.
Would we get more realism.
Would it make our model perform better and make our predictions more accurate.
And perhaps we should evaluate our model not just on the data that we used for training it but on new
data data that it hasn't seen yet and also what if the relationship that we have here is actually non-linear.
What if we somehow need to transform the data to get a better fit.
So in a way our analysis has left us with a lot more questions that we should investigate and we will
do just that in the upcoming modules.
Well you got started on the first project and you went through the whole data science workflow you've
gathered the data you've cleaned the data you visualize that and then you ran a machine learning algorithm
and then you've evaluated the results and you've even made a prediction but this is only the start.
We've got a whole lot more ground to cover and we'll dive deep into a lot of these concepts and the
techniques that we've introduced here in the next module we're going to install Jupiter and we're also
going to learn a little bit more about regression.
But the real focus will be on learning more Python programming.
From there we're going to learn about gradient descent and how optimization works for many machine learning
algorithms that we're going to encounter.
And after that we're going to use multi variable regression and predict some real estate prices in Boston
from there we're going to build an actual spam filter from scratch using a naive based classifier and
then we're gonna take it up a notch.
I'm gonna dive into deep learning with neural networks and tensor flow.
So for all of that and more I'll see you on the next lessons.